# Install Git

<!-- TOC -->

- [1. Dependencies](#1-Dependencies)
- [2. Source Code](#2-Source-Code)
- [3. Install Git from Source](#3-Install-Git-from-Source)
  - [3.1. Decompress](#31-Decompress)
  - [3.2. Configure](#32-Configure)
  - [3.3. Install](#33-Install)
- [4. 查看git版本](#4-%E6%9F%A5%E7%9C%8Bgit%E7%89%88%E6%9C%AC)
- [5. git错误解决](#5-git%E9%94%99%E8%AF%AF%E8%A7%A3%E5%86%B3)

<!-- /TOC -->

参考[How To Install Git on CentOS 7](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-git-on-centos-7)

## 1. Dependencies

Before you begin, you'll need to install the software that git depends on. **These dependencies** are all available in the default CentOS repositories, along with **the tools** that we need to build a **binary** from **source**.

> source --> binary  
> 编译工具+依赖包+git源代码：第1步，安装编译工具和依赖包；第2步，下载git源代码。

```bash
## 安装编译工具
# yum -y groupinstall "Development Tools"
## 安装依赖包
# yum install -y gettext-devel openssl-devel perl-CPAN perl-devel zlib-devel
```

## 2. Source Code

Git releases page： [https://github.com/git/git/releases](https://github.com/git/git/releases)

```bash
# wget https://github.com/git/git/archive/v2.22.0.tar.gz  -O git.tar.gz
```

The version at the top of the list is the most recent release. If it does not have `-rc` (short for "Release Candidate") in the name, that means that it is a stable release and is safe for use.

查看git的最新版。不要下载带有-rc的，因为它代表了一个候选发布版本。 

> RC=Release Candidate,含义是"发布候选版"，它不是最终的版本，而是最终版(RTM=Release To Manufacture)之前的最后一个版本。

## 3. Install Git from Source

### 3.1. Decompress

Once the download is complete, we can unpack the source archive using `tar`. We'll need a few extra flags to make sure that the unpacking is done correctly: `z` decompresses the archive (since all .gz files are compressed), `x` extracts the individual files and folders from the archive, and `f` tells `tar` that we are declaring a filename to work with.

```bash
# tar -zxf git.tar.gz
```

We'll need to move to that folder to begin configuring our build. Instead of bothering with the full version name in the folder, we can use a wildcard (`*`) to save us some trouble in moving to that folder.

```bash
# cd git-*
```

### 3.2. Configure

Once we are in the source folder, we can begin the source build process. This starts with some pre-build checks for things like software dependencies and hardware configurations. We can check for everything that we need with the `configure` script that is generated by `make configure`. This script will also use a `--prefix` to declare `/usr/local` (the default program folder for Linux platforms) as the appropriate destination for the new binary, and will create a `Makefile` to be used in the following step.

```bash
# make configure
# ./configure --prefix=/usr/local
```

### 3.3. Install

`Makefiles` are scriptable configuration files that are processed by the `make` utility. Our `Makefile` will tell make how to compile a program and link it to our CentOS installation so that we can execute the program properly. With a `Makefile` in place, we can now execute `make install` (with `sudo` privileges) to compile **the source code** into a working program and install it to our server:

```bash
# make install
```

## 4. 查看git版本

Git should now be built and installed on your CentOS 7 server. To double-check that it is working correctly, try running Git's built-in version check:

```bash
git --version
```

## 5. git错误解决

原文：https://my.oschina.net/hevakelcj/blog/409155

git错误: Unable to find remote helper for 'https'

是因为`/usr/libexec/git-core/`路径没在`PATH`环境变量中。

这导致里面的`git-remote-https`, `git-remote-http`这些得不到执行。所以git所表现出来的功能不全。

解决办法是：将 `/usr/libexec/git-core` 纳入`PATH`，至少在使用git之前，设置一下`PATH`。

```bash
PATH=$PATH:/usr/libexec/git-core
```

或直接在`/etc/profile`中修改。

> 至此结束。

